But this fire disaster happened over 110 years ago in the Northern Rocky Mountains of Idaho and Montana.
The “Big Burn” of 1910 still holds the record for the largest fire season in the Northern Rockies.
Catholics and fascists alike have deployed images of mountains - and particularly the Alps - in their rhetoric, each ascribing them with their own meaning.
Fascists used the Alps as grounds on which to improve the health of the nation. 
Kilimanjaro in Africa are volcanic mountains. 
Mount Rainier in the United States is another example.
Through frozen eyelashes, Samantha Hansen blinked out at the featureless landscape: a wall of white, where up was the same as down, and ground blended seamlessly into sky.
Mount Kailash, in the Tibet Autonomous Region of China, is considered to be sacred in four religions.
The Himalayan peak of Nanda Devi is associated with the Hindu goddesses Nanda and Sunanda; it has been off-limits to climbers since 1983.
Mount Ararat is a sacred mountain, as it is believed to be the landing place of Noah's Ark.
In Europe and especially in the Alps, summit crosses are often erected on the tops of prominent mountains.
There is no precise definition of surrounding base, but Denali, Mount Kilimanjaro and Nanga Parbat are possible candidates for the tallest mountain on land by this measure.
Mount Logan is the largest non-volcanic mountain in base area (120 sq mi or 311 km2).
A peak included in the "Eastern Pamirs" more often than in the Kunlun Mountains.
In the north of the region is the Sailughem Mountains, also known as Kolyvan Altai, which stretch northeast towards the western extremity of the Sayan Mountains.
The north western and northern slopes of the Sailughem Mountains are extremely steep and difficult to access.
The Altai mountains are home to a diverse fauna, because of its different habitats, like steppes, northern taigas and alpine vegetation.
The "Daksinaparvata" ("Southern Mountain") mentioned in the Kaushitaki Upanishad is also identified with the Vindhyas.
The Vindhya Range (also known as Vindhyachal) is a complex, discontinuous chain of mountain ridges, hill ranges, highlands and plateau escarpments.
The Pontic Mountains or Pontic Alps form a mountain range in northern Anatolia, Turkey.
The Cantabrian Mountains or Cantabrian Range are one of the main systems of mountain ranges in Spain.
The main mountains of this zone are the massive Picos de Europa.
The Basque Mountains at the eastern end of the system, with very eroded Mesozoic folds.
The Atlas Mountains are a mountain range in the Maghreb in North Africa.
